CrowdStrike telemetry (#1070)
SEKOIA-IO/documentation: docs/xdr/features/collect/integrations/endpoint/crowdstrike_telemetry.md

uuid: 10999b99-9a8d-4b92-9fbd-01e3fac01cd5
name: CrowdStrike Telemetry
type: intake

## Overview

[CrowdStrike] CrowdStrike provides cloud workload and endpoint security, threat intelligence, and cyberattack response services and products.

{!_shared_content/operations_center/detection/generated/suggested_rules_10999b99-9a8d-4b92-9fbd-01e3fac01cd5_do_not_edit_manually.md!}

{!_shared_content/operations_center/integrations/generated/10999b99-9a8d-4b92-9fbd-01e3fac01cd5.md!}

## Configure

> ### Transport to the collector

Reviewer: No collector needed for this integration
```suggestion
```

> #### Prerequisites
> The following prerequisites are needed in order to setup efficient events handling:
> 
> - Have Falcon Administrator
> - Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), which is the technology used to store event data outside of Falcon
> - Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS), which notifies you when new data is available from FDR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
The following prerequisites are needed in order to setup efficient events handling:

- Have a Falcon Administrator account
```

> #### Configure the client
> 
> ##### Install and configure CrowdStrike Telemetry
> 
> Please follow the [official documentation](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/9/falcon-data-replicator#falcon-data-replicator-setup).
> You should be able to get `AWS_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_SECRET_KEY`, `QUEUE_NAME` and `AWS_REGION` from the previous step.
> 
> Settup local environment:
> 
> ```bash
> ### Install necessary dependencies
> poetry install
> 
> ### Run script
> poetry run python main.py crowdstrike_telemetry
> ```
> 
> ### Enjoy your events
> Go to the [events page](https://app.sekoia.io/operations/events) to watch your incoming events.

Reviewer: I suggest describing the setup step by step
```suggestion
### Generate the Credentials

To set up the integration:
1. Contact your CrowdStrike account representative to set up your Falcon Data Replicator feed (This request may take 2 to 5 days)
2. Create the credentials for the feed:
   1. In the console, got to `Support and resources > Resources and tools > Falcon data replicator`.
   2. Click on the burger menu (the three vertical point) and select `Create credentials`
   3. Get the client ID, the client secret, the queue name and the region.

### Create the intake

Go to the [intake page](https://app.sekoia.io/operations/intakes) and create a new intake from the format `CrowdStrike Telemetry`. Copy the intake key.

### Pull events

To start to pull events, you have to:

1. Go to the [playbooks page](https://app.sekoia.io/operations/playbooks) and create a new playbook with the [Fetch new events from CrowdStrike Data replication](../../../automate/library/crowdstrike.md) trigger
2. Set up the module configuration with your client id, the client secret and the region. Set up the trigger configuration with the intake key and the queue name.
3. Start the playbook and enjoy your events

## Further Readings

- [Falcon Data Replicator documentation](https://falcon.eu-1.crowdstrike.com/documentation/9/falcon-data-replicator#falcon-data-replicator-setup)
```
